Intent2.0 (#1)
IntentSoftware/Docs: articles/references/concepts/project-layout.md

# Project Layout (with Roles)

## Overall layout

> Since we need to generate code at the end of the day, we need to tell Intent Architect where to place it.

Author: ```suggestion
The _Project Layout_ screen allows you to configure at a high, or organisational, level where Intent Architect should output generated files.
```

![Project Layout](images/project-layout/project-layout.png)

This can be located by clicking on `Project Layout`, located on the left-hand panel.

![Located](images/project-layout/locate-project-layout-button.png)

> You'll notice a gray folder called `Projects`. This is there by default. It cannot change.

Author: ```suggestion
The gray root node folder called `Projects` is a an Intent Architect system folder and cannot be removed or changed.
```

Inside that folder there are yellow folders. At the moment, they represent the virtual folders found in Visual Studio.

Within those folders you may add different project types. In the sample image above you will notice a `Web project` type and a couple of `Class project` types.

You may customize your solution to your hearts content by creating different folders and moving/modifying the projects already contained within.

If you were to open up Visual Studio, you will find that the layout above corresponds with the Visual Studio tree layout:

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Within the the `Projects` root folder, projects and sub-folders can be created. Sub-folders can be created to any depth and projects can be placed at any level within your folder structure.

It is also possible to create and move `Roles`. Roles will be explained in full detail further below.

Modules can refer to this `Project Layout` configuration to determine where to output generated content. For example the `Intent.VisualStudio.Projects` module will generate a `.sln` which contains the folder structure matching the configuration here along with referencing and creating a `.csproj` for each project specified.
```

Additional suggestions (could be come back to later, perhaps we make GitHub issues to remind us?):
- Link to the Visual Studio Module
- Link to Modules

![VS Tree Layouyt](images/project-layout/corresponding-vs-solution.png)

## Roles

One thing we need to cover in particular is the concept known as `Roles`.
Roles play an important "role" in telling Intent Architect where to generate some files.
You will notice that there are many green checkmarks found in the image above. Those are commonly known as `Roles`.
A `Role` associates an Intent Architect [Module](xref:Modules) with a Project or Folder.
When a developer installs a new Module, a typical new Role gets created and placed inside the Project Layout but as "unassigned".

In order to assign that `Role`, the developer needs to drag that `Role` to a `Project` or `Folder`.

So let's assume for a minute that we don't have any Docker modules installed. The moment we install `Intent.AspNetCore.Docker`, it will add a new `Role`.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
`Roles` are what templates use to target their output, then based on the project which a role was allocated to, Intent Architect determines the exact output path of a template.

Intent Architect has this concept of `roles` to allow decoupling between where exactly a template outputs its generated content and the actual target project names and paths.

Module authors specify in their `.imodspec` file the default target role for each template in the Module. When the  Module is added to an _Intent Architect Application_, then all roles specified in the module are added automatically added to the _Project Layout_ screen. Intent Architect users then need to drag and drop these _Roles_ onto the desired target project.

When the software factory is executing templates it refers to the Project Layout configuration to determine which project has been allocated that role and is ultimately able to resolve the exact output path for content.

To further demonstrate assigning of roles in practice, below is an example of installing the `Intent.AspNetCore.Docker` and then assigning its role in the _Project Layout_ screen.

Start by installing the `Intent.AspNetCore.Docker` module through the Modules screen.
```

![Install Docker](images/project-layout/docker-module-install.png)

> ![Unassigned Dockerfile Role](images/project-layout/unassigned-dockerfile.png)

Author: ```suggestion
Upon going to the _Project Layout_, a `DockerFile` role will now be present. Its icon will be red and it will have `Unassigned` written next to it.

![Unassigned Dockerfile Role](images/project-layout/unassigned-dockerfile.png)
```

> To assign this `Role`, you need to click and drag it to where it needs to be.

Author: ```suggestion
To assign the `Role`, simply click and drag it to the desired project.
```

![Assign Dockerfile Role](images/project-layout/drag-dockerfile-distribution.gif)

> So now if you were to run the Software Factory, you will notice that it will put the `Dockerfile` in the project where we assigned it (i.e. `TestProject.MyApplication.Api`).

Author: ```suggestion
When the the Software Factory is next run, it will then output the `Dockerfile` to the project where it was assigned.
```

![Software Factory Run](images/project-layout/software-factory-run-dockerfile.png)

> Should we drag `Dockerfile` now to `TestProject.MyApplication.Application`, we will see that the Software Factory run will attempt to generate the file there.

Author: ```suggestion
We can change the target output path of the `Dockerfile` by simply dragging the role to a different project.

On running the Software Factory after, it will have changed the output path.
```

![Software Factory Run](images/project-layout/software-factory-run-dockerfile2.png)

And so, each Module will have potentially their own `Roles` that they will install that the developer will need to assign to a given Folder or Project.

At the moment, there is no way to determine which Module installs which `Role` other than manually opening the Module settings and inspecting them one-by-one (unless you can inspect the source code).

> 

Author: We don't need to highlight this limitation, I think instead we should at least create an issue on GitHub to come back and improve this in some way.

```suggestion
To view which role a template targets from within Intent Architect, on the Module screen, select the templates Module and then click the "cog" icon next the modules particular template that you are interested in.

Its the `Target Role` field that specifies it. You can also edit the field and press save to change the role it targets. Just remember to go back to the `Project Layout` screen to add or update the roles appropriately.
```

Other remarks, perhaps we open a GitHub issue to have Intent Architect automatically create these new roles.
